the center rescues over 600 animals a
year half of all the stranded marine
mammals in America and more than any
other institution in the world the
casualties elephant seals sea lions and
harbor seals are mostly beached or
disease ridden some are brought in with
wounds from boat propellers or sadly
even gunshots in the hospital and
orphaned harbor seal is in need of
serious attention he was rescued by
volunteers and without a mother he would
have no chance of survival in the wild
he's in the crisis situation so we are
actually gonna take some blood to send
out for a CBC and then decide whether he
needs to actually have a catheter
because he has been vomiting and he's
really quite depressed we just got a
cess house just outside years and
probably put him on a drip to give him
fluids and also giving some antibiotic
cover as well with high-tech equipment
we are able to take a reading from an
internal probe on the oxygen levels in
his system what we're looking at is the
SP o2 which is the oxygen saturation
that's how well it's actually breathing
in exactly I love these oxygenating
given the x-rays of lungs and the high
co2 and the blood gas I think lungs are
our problem for this animal rod so
what's the long-term picture for him
well really with a young animal like
this it's it's a really a day-by-day or
sometimes even hour-by-hour situation so
what would you take him back I think
tree if you wouldn't mind these probably
needs his rest
thank you very much
sadly our little orphans lungs were so
badly damaged from infection he didn't
make it through the night